doc/source/contributing.rst, before:

==============
 Contributing
==============

Issues
------

We use the `GitHub issue tracker`_ for reporting issues. Before opening a new
issue, ensure the bug was not already reported by searching on Issue tracker
first.

If you're unable to find an open issue addressing the problem, open a new one.
Be sure to include a title and clear description, as much relevant information
as possible, and a code sample or an executable test case demonstrating the
expected behavior that is not occurring.

If you are looking to contribute for the first time, some issues are tagged
with the "`good first issue`_" label and are easy targets for newcomers.

.. _`GitHub issue tracker`: https://github.com/gnocchixyz/gnocchi/issues
.. _`good first issue`: https://github.com/gnocchixyz/gnocchi/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22


Pull-requests
-------------

When opening a pull-request, make sure that:

* You write a comprehensive summary of your problem and the solution you
  implemented.
* If you update or fix your pull-request, make sure the commits are atomic. Do
  not include fix-up commits in your history, rewrite it properly using e.g.
  `git rebase --interactive` and/or `git commit --amend`.
* We recommend using `git pull-request`_ to send your pull-requests.

All sent pull-requests are checked using `Travis-CI`_, which is in charge of
running the tests suites. There are different scenarios being run: `PEP 8`_
compliance tests, upgrade tests, unit and functional tests.

All pull-requests must be reviewed by `members of the Gnocchi project`_.

When a pull-request is approved by at least two of the members and when
Travis-CI confirms that all the tests run fine, the patch will be merged.

The Gnocchi project leverages `Mergify`_ in order to schedule the merge of the
different pull-requests. Mergify is in charge of making sure that the
pull-request is up-to-date with respect to the `master` branch and that the
tests pass. Pull-requests are always merged in a serialized manner in order to
make sure that no pull-request can break another one.

`Gnocchi's Mergify dashboard`_ shows the current status of the merge queue.

.. _`git pull-request`: https://github.com/jd/git-pull-request
.. _`PEP 8`: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
.. _`Travis-CI`: http://travis-ci.org
.. _`members of the Gnocchi project`: https://github.com/orgs/gnocchixyz/people
.. _`Mergify`: https://mergify.io
.. _`Gnocchi's Mergify dashboard`: https://gh.mergify.io/gnocchixyz


Running the Tests
-----------------

Tests are run using `tox <https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_. Tox creates
a virtual environment for each test environment, so make sure you are using an
up to date version of `virtualenv <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv>`_.

Different test environments and configurations can be found by running the
``tox -l`` command. For example, to run tests with Python 3.6, PostgreSQL as
indexer, and file as storage backend:

::

    tox -e py36-postgresql-file


To run tests with MySQL as indexer, and Ceph as storage backend:

::

    tox -e py36-mysql-ceph


In order to run the tests like they do in travis CI, you could create
a user named tester, use UID 2000 and GID 2000 and run a command like
this

::
    docker run -v ~/.cache/pip:/home/tester/.cache/pip -v $(pwd):/home/tester/src gnocchixyz/ci-tools:latest tox

Make sure the machine executing the tests has as least 4 GB of RAM.

Commit message:

Update documentation to reflect GitHub Actions

doc/source/contributing.rst, after:

==============
 Contributing
==============

Issues
------

We use the `GitHub issue tracker`_ for reporting issues. Before opening a new
issue, ensure the bug was not already reported by searching on Issue tracker
first.

If you're unable to find an open issue addressing the problem, open a new one.
Be sure to include a title and clear description, as much relevant information
as possible, and a code sample or an executable test case demonstrating the
expected behavior that is not occurring.

If you are looking to contribute for the first time, some issues are tagged
with the "`good first issue`_" label and are easy targets for newcomers.

.. _`GitHub issue tracker`: https://github.com/gnocchixyz/gnocchi/issues
.. _`good first issue`: https://github.com/gnocchixyz/gnocchi/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22


Pull-requests
-------------

When opening a pull-request, make sure that:

* You write a comprehensive summary of your problem and the solution you
  implemented.
* If you update or fix your pull-request, make sure the commits are atomic. Do
  not include fix-up commits in your history, rewrite it properly using e.g.
  `git rebase --interactive` and/or `git commit --amend`.
* We recommend using `git pull-request`_ to send your pull-requests.

All sent pull-requests are checked using GitHub Actions, which is in charge of
running the tests suites. There are different scenarios being run: `PEP 8`_
compliance tests, upgrade tests, unit and functional tests.

All pull-requests must be reviewed by `members of the Gnocchi project`_.

When a pull-request is approved by a team member and the GitHub Actions
confirms that all the tests run fine, the patch will be merged.

The Gnocchi project leverages `Mergify`_ in order to schedule the merge of the
different pull-requests. Mergify is in charge of making sure that the
pull-request is up-to-date with respect to the `master` branch and that the
tests pass. Pull-requests are always merged in a serialized manner in order to
make sure that no pull-request can break another one.

`Gnocchi's Mergify dashboard`_ shows the current status of the merge queue.

.. _`git pull-request`: https://github.com/jd/git-pull-request
.. _`PEP 8`: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
.. _`members of the Gnocchi project`: https://github.com/orgs/gnocchixyz/people
.. _`Mergify`: https://mergify.io
.. _`Gnocchi's Mergify dashboard`: https://gh.mergify.io/gnocchixyz


Running the Tests
-----------------

Tests are run using `tox <https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_. Tox creates
a virtual environment for each test environment, so make sure you are using an
up to date version of `virtualenv <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv>`_.

Different test environments and configurations can be found by running the
``tox -l`` command. For example, to run tests with Python 3.8, PostgreSQL as
indexer, and file as storage backend:

::

    tox -e py38-postgresql-file


To run tests with MySQL as indexer, and Ceph as storage backend:

::

    tox -e py38-mysql-ceph


In order to run the tests like they do in the CI, you could create
a user with UID 1001 and GID 1001 and run a command like this

::
    docker run -v $(pwd):/github/workspace gnocchixyz/ci-tools:latest tox

Make sure the machine executing the tests has as least 4 GB of RAM.
